It sounds kind of strange and maybe it's a little bit hard to grasp, but try to hang in there with me for a moment.
Our very nature, who I am, my essence, has been radically changed when I came to faith in Christ.
I became a child of God.
I took on the very righteousness of Jesus Christ himself.
That's who I am.
If that's who I am, then why do I still sin?
Because there is this force of sin that dwells within my flesh.
And I inherited that force, that propensity, that rule that some people call it, that I inherited all the way from Adam and Eve.
Every single human being born into the world has this problem, this force of sin dwelling in our flesh, even as a Christian.
But this is so important to understand.
My real nature, who I am, who I will be for all eternity with God, I have been changed because I'm now in Christ.
I'm now sinless.
but I still sin.
Why do I still sin?
Why do I have this struggle?
Because this force of sin that dwells within my flesh is there until I leave this flesh behind.
That's why when Christians die, when we go home to be with the Lord, if you've ever wondered about it, there's no longer, not only is there no longer death or sickness or any kind of pain, but we are in the presence of God and we will no longer struggle
with temptation.
We'll no longer struggle to do the right thing.
We will be in the presence of God, our nature, who we are, who we were from the very moment we trusted in Christ, will leave behind the sin and the flesh.
There's no longer a struggle as the apostle Paul talks about.
You know, the desire to do good, but I find myself doing what I don't want to do.
It's like, wow, but that's the struggle in the Christian life for now, for now.
And how do we gain victory?
as the Apostle Paul says, through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Through Jesus Christ our Lord.
You've heard me talk about this before and I don't want to belabor it, but one of my personal struggles in my Christian life happens every time I get behind the wheel and I'm driving.
Now, this morning, driving to church, I live in Elk Grove, I take I-5 north
So I get on usually at Hood Franklin, you know, because I live in the south part of El Grove.
That's my route.
Hood Franklin on I-5 North, get off at Fruit Ridge.
Well, okay, I thought about it this morning because obviously I'm preaching about it and I know I mentioned something about my driving.
It's a struggle for me every time because of certain attitudes I have.
I tend to be impatient.
I tend to
to be in a rush even when I'm not late for an appointment or anything.
I'm just in a hurry for some strange reason.
And that leads to a tendency to speed, okay?
Now, I know and I think some people have verified this for me that if the speed limit is 65, you can safely go within five miles of the speed limit and pretty much know you're not gonna get stopped by the police, okay?
Up to 70.
Well, if I'm going over 70,
then many times the flow of traffic, and that's a very convenient excuse, well the flow of traffic is going 75, 80, I mean, I don't want to get run over, well when it gets to three lanes, you can pretty much maneuver your car, your vehicle in a way that you can stay within 65 to 70 and not be a nuisance to everybody else who's flying by it.
But I find it for myself, it's still a struggle to do that, even if there's not a lot of traffic or whatever, and unless,
The struggle going on in my mind is there's these two different thoughts, right?
One thought is, hey, you know what, as long as I'm not hurting anybody, as long as I'm not endangering anybody, as long as I'm not hopefully not in risk of actually getting a ticket, then I can kind of drive as fast as I want.
The other voice is saying, remember what God's word says about submitting to the authorities?
And whether you agree or not with the speed limit, if the speed limit's been set at 65, you really shouldn't go more than 70.
Even if there's nobody else on the road.
Okay, so now it's just a personal, oh yeah, I see people looking at one another.
Okay, let's stop the finger pointing and they're like, whatever.
This is just me sharing with you about this kind of struggle.
And some of you may think it's just a little thing, but actually for me, it's not a little thing anymore because it's been going on for years.
And for me, it becomes a, so now when I get in the car, I have to start thinking, what am I going to start thinking about?
I'm going to start thinking about, am I going to submit to the authorities the way God wants me to?
Or am I just going to go do my own thing?
And you say, well, you know, there's the added risk being a minister.
If you do get caught, which I have in my lifetime, I've got a number of tickets.
It's always interesting getting pulled over by the police, rolling down the window and thinking, you know, is anybody else going to be passing by and saying, what's that, Pastor Lewis?
So it's like, yeah great, way to go Pastor Lewis, good testimony.
Make sure you don't mention anything about our church.
So it's just kind of like, there's this added thing, but let's face it, if you're not a minister, if you're a child of God because of your faith in Christ, then we represent Jesus Christ everywhere, all the time,
not only with our actions, but certainly with our attitudes, our words, the way we treat people, and everything that's going on internally as well.
So this continues to be a struggle.
And I thank God that, you know, over the last, what, 30 years, 35, 40 years, it's gotten a lot better.
I mean, I'm driving a whole lot better now than I used to.
And you say, wow, you're, you know, here's stories of what I was doing 35 years ago.
Well, anyway, we're all on this journey.
And hopefully,
we learn and we understand that what goes out of my mind and my attitudes will eventually affect my actions and my behaviors.
And so if I have, so amassing God, help me to have a better attitude of being submissive to the authorities because being submissive to the authorities is also a way I gain greater understanding and appreciation of what it means to submit to God.
See, I don't submit to the authorities ultimately because of just the authorities.
You know, and by the way, you know, one of the things I think about is, am I driving in a way that, you know, like once in a while when a CHP or Sacramento Police, some law enforcement vehicle pulls up alongside of you, do I have to suddenly change, you know, like take my foot out, they said, don't hit your brake, because you know, when they see you hit your brakes, when they're going by, they kind of know you're speeding.
So you just take your foot out of the accelerator.
and you just start coasting a little bit.
But the whole idea is do I have to change my behavior now that there's a law enforcement agent there and I'm afraid of getting a ticket?
Do we?
Do I make a complete stop at the stop sign or the red light and not the California yellow stop where I'm just coasting through because I see a law enforcement agent and I'm afraid of getting a ticket.
Now you say well that's a good motivation.
Okay.
And, you know, you say, well, if God is right there with me, I can say, well, I'm afraid of displeasing God.
You know, I mean, that's more important than displeasing a police officer.
But I'll tell you a higher motivation.
A higher motivation I thought about this morning, even as I thought about, you know, following the speed limit rather than just speeding.
I thought it's not just that I'm afraid of getting a ticket or even just the idea that I'm displeasing God Almighty, but the idea that
You know, God wants us to be motivated because of his love.
Because of everything God has done for me, you know, is it so much that he's telling me to obey and submit to the authorities and the laws and stuff?
And so I want to submit to God, not because it's just because I'm afraid to get a tear, or because I'm afraid God's going to strike me with a lightning bolt, but more importantly, as I stop and I think, God, you know, everything you've done for me in my life, is this really such a big deal?
No.
So by submitting to the authorities, submitting to the speed law, I'm hopefully having just a moment in my own mind and in my life and behavior, a moment of really, it's worship.
It's like God, you're just an amazing, incredible, loving, merciful God.
And you've told me that I should behave this way and I'm gonna do it because I appreciate who you are and all that you've done for me.
So you do it out of love.
You do it out of appreciation for all that God has done for us.
And that's the way it is with everything in the Christian life.
All the things that we know God wants us to do and we understand there's some good behind it.
There's certainly some good behind it.
Yeah, I'm gonna finish this next week.
I'll actually be preaching the next couple of weeks.
But just let me just close by talking a little bit again about
My struggle was sports, because I opened with a sports illustration.
And to be quite honest, it's a struggle for me as well in terms of priorities and how much time I invest in it.
It's easy to justify, but I'll tell you, when the Warriors started this series against Houston, and most people thought, okay, these are the top two teams in the whole NBA.
This is like the main,
playoff matchup that's probably going to determine who's going to win the whole NBA championship.
So I'm being a Warriors fan.
It's kind of like, yeah, I'm sorry.
So I look at the schedule, you know, ESPN, the schedule of the games.
And I notice a couple of games fall on Tuesday nights, which is men's Bible study every Tuesday night.
So that's right.
So what am I thinking?
You know, I'm like, oh man, you know, I'm going to have to miss one of the playoff games between the Warriors.
in Houston on a Tuesday night, maybe, and here's how the mind works, you know, the mind can kinda play these little games.
I should talk to the guys and see if maybe, you know, a lot of them might be interested in the game, and perhaps we need to have a break from our usual Bible study and maybe hang out at a pizza place and watch the game together, you know, wouldn't that be fun, fellas?
But we've done that in the past when the Warriors were in the finals against Cleveland, and there were certain games that fell on a Tuesday night, not because I brought it up,
But because several of the other guys brought it up and I'm like, well, okay, let's see what the other guys are like.
I'm acting like, oh yeah, I can go either way, like yeah.
Well, it just happened.
What was it?
I think game four was last Tuesday night.
And some of you who've been following, game four was in Oakland.
And let's see what happened.
What happened with game four?
Game four, the Warriors were ahead two to one, right?
And so if they won Tuesday night, they'd be up three to one, and they pretty much would lock up the series.
Some of you remember, now before that happened, I was really tempted to send out a mass email to all the guys these nights saying, hey, you know, the Warriors are playing tomorrow night.
We haven't taken a break for pizza and just hanging out with her.
Would you guys think?
And I thought, Matt, I'm not gonna do that.
I'm not gonna do that because I don't wanna be the one to take the lead on that.
Now, there are a bunch of other guys who want to do it.
Hey, I'll go along with it, but I'm not going to take the lead on it just for the basketball game.
And some of you remember what happened Tuesday night.
The Warriors had an excruciating loss at home.
It was the first time they lost a playoff game at home in a long time.
And afterwards, I thought, thank you, God, for the mercy of God that I wasn't home or watching that game.
It would have been so frustrating to be a Warriors.
I'm glad I missed it.
I'm glad we had our Tuesday night Bible study.
The guys were there.
We had a great time.
Nobody even brought it up.
Nobody even talked about it.
Nobody thought about it.
Great.
Fantastic.
And I thought game seven.
Game seven is Monday night.
Monday night.
So, yeah, if game seven were on Tuesday night, then that might have been even a tougher sort of struggle.
You know, I think, all right.
You know, anybody else going to bring that up?
You know, come on.
You know, sleep.
Yeah.
So just, you know, we all have our struggles and in our minds is where the battle is really.
You know, in the mind, what are we gonna focus on, what are we gonna think about?
So next week I'll talk about how we can really go about having more victory in these battles in our minds.
And God gives us the means in order to have the kind of victory that will enable us to live our lives in that newness that he has created
through faith in Christ as children of God to live out our lives so that our attitudes, our thoughts, our motives, our actions, our values will better reflect what it means to be a child of God.
Let's close in prayer.
Let's pray.
Well, the God, thanks again for who you are, the great God of the universe, the God who is so merciful and gracious and loving.
And Father, thank you for the new life that we can experience in Christ.
And I pray that you'd help all of us, especially those of us who have a personal relationship with you, to understand that there's a struggle, a battle going on all the time in our minds.
And we don't wanna be just act like we're innocent bystanders on the sideline, trying to decide which side that we're gonna follow.
But to realize that we are your children and you have given us a whole new life and we are to live out that life.
in a manner which honors and pleases you as our Heavenly Father.
So Father, thank you again for this time of worship.
We give you praise and thanks in Jesus' name.
Amen.